                                                                    Learning to Search Better than Your Teacher


                                         Kai-Wei Chang                                                                                 KCHANG 10@ ILLINOIS . EDU

                                         University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign, IL

                                         Akshay Krishnamurthy                                                                            AKSHAYKR @ CS . CMU . EDU




arXiv:1502.02206v2 [cs.LG] 20 May 2015
                                         Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA

                                         Alekh Agarwal                                                                                 ALEKHA @ MICROSOFT. COM

                                         Microsoft Research, New York, NY

                                         Hal Daumé III                                                                                   HAL @ UMIACS . UMD . EDU

                                         University of Maryland, College Park, MD, USA

                                         John Langford                                                                                       JCL @ MICROSOFT. COM

                                         Microsoft Research, New York, NY



                                                                                                  Abstract
                                              Methods for learning to search for structured prediction typically imitate a reference policy, with existing theoret-
                                              ical guarantees demonstrating low regret compared to that reference. This is unsatisfactory in many applications
                                              where the reference policy is suboptimal and the goal of learning is to improve upon it. Can learning to search
                                              work even when the reference is poor?
                                              We provide a new learning to search algorithm, LOLS, which does well relative to the reference policy, but
                                              additionally guarantees low regret compared to deviations from the learned policy: a local-optimality guarantee.
                                              Consequently, LOLS can improve upon the reference policy, unlike previous algorithms. This enables us to
                                              develop structured contextual bandits, a partial information structured prediction setting with many potential
                                              applications.


                                         1. Introduction
                                         In structured prediction problems, a learner makes joint predictions over a set of interdependent output variables and ob-
                                         serves a joint loss. For example, in a parsing task, the output is a parse tree over a sentence. Achieving optimal performance
                                         commonly requires the prediction of each output variable to depend on neighboring variables. One approach to structured
                                         prediction is learning to search (L 2 S) (Collins & Roark, 2004; Daumé III & Marcu, 2005; Daumé III et al., 2009; Ross
                                         et al., 2011; Doppa et al., 2014; Ross & Bagnell, 2014), which solves the problem by:
                                          1. converting structured prediction into a search problem with specified search space and actions;
                                          2. defining structured features over each state to capture the interdependency between output variables;
                                          3. constructing a reference policy based on training data;
                                          4. learning a policy that imitates the reference policy.
                                         Empirically, L 2 S approaches have been shown to be competitive with other structured prediction approaches both in ac-
                                         curacy and running time (see e.g. Daumé III et al. (2014)). Theoretically, existing L 2 S algorithms guarantee that if the
                                              Learning to Search Better than Your Teacher

                                                     [V         ]
                                                                    [N N ]         [N V N],loss=0

                                    [     ]          [N         ] [N V ]           [N V V],loss=1
                                                                     ...           ...
                                                          ...
Figure 1. An illustration of the search space of a sequential tagging example that assigns a part-of-speech tag sequence to the sen-
tence “John saw Mary.” Each state represents a partial labeling. The start state b = [            ] and the set of end states E =
{[N V N ], [N V V ], . . .}. Each end state is associated with a loss. A policy chooses an action at each state in the search space to
specify the next state.


learning step performs well, then the learned policy is almost as good as the reference policy, implicitly assuming that the
reference policy attains good performance. Good reference policies are typically derived using labels in the training data,
such as assigning each word to its correct POS tag. However, when the reference policy is suboptimal, which can arise for
reasons such as computational constraints, nothing can be said for existing approaches.
This problem is most obviously manifest in a “structured contextual bandit”1 setting. For example, one might want to
predict how the landing page of a high profile website should be displayed; this involves many interdependent predictions:
items to show, position and size of those items, font, color, layout, etc. It may be plausible to derive a quality signal for the
displayed page based on user feedback, and we may have access to a reasonable reference policy (namely the existing rule-
based system that renders the current web page). But, applying L 2 S techniques results in nonsense—learning something
almost as good as the existing policy is useless as we can just keep using the current system and obtain that guarantee.
Unlike the full feedback settings, label information is not even available during learning to define a substantially better
reference. The goal of learning here is to improve upon the current system, which is most likely far from optimal. This
naturally leads to the question: is learning to search useless when the reference policy is poor?
This is the core question of the paper, which we address first with a new L 2 S algorithm, LOLS (Locally Optimal Learning
to Search) in Section 2. LOLS operates in an online fashion and achieves a bound on a convex combination of regret-
to-reference and regret-to-own-one-step-deviations. The first part ensures that good reference policies can be leveraged
effectively; the second part ensures that even if the reference policy is very sub-optimal, the learned policy is approximately
“locally optimal” in a sense made formal in Section 3.
LOLS operates according to a general schematic that encompases many past L 2 S algorithms (see Section 2), including
Searn (Daumé III et al., 2009), DAgger (Ross et al., 2011) and AggreVaTe (Ross & Bagnell, 2014). A secondary contri-
bution of this paper is a theoretical analysis of both good and bad ways of instantiating this schematic under a variety of
conditions, including: whether the reference policy is optimal or not, and whether the reference policy is in the hypothesis
class or not. We find that, while past algorithms achieve good regret guarantees when the reference policy is optimal, they
can fail rather dramatically when it is not. LOLS, on the other hand, has superior performance to other L 2 S algorithms
when the reference policy performs poorly but local hill-climbing in policy space is effective. In Section 5, we empirically
confirm that LOLS can significantly outperform the reference policy in practice on real-world datasets.
In Section 4 we extend LOLS to address the structured contextual bandit setting, giving a natural modification to the
algorithm as well as the corresponding regret analysis.
The algorithm LOLS, the new kind of regret guarantee it satisfies, the modifications for the structured contextual bandit
setting, and all experiments are new here.

2. Learning to Search
A structured prediction problem consists of an input space X , an output space Y, a fixed but unknown distribution D over
X × Y, and a non-negative loss function `(y ∗ , ŷ) → R≥0 which measures the distance between the true (y ∗ ) and predicted
(ŷ) outputs. The goal of structured learning is to use N samples (xi , y i )N
                                                                             i=1 to learn a mapping f : X → Y that minimizes
the expected structured loss under D.
In the learning to search framework, an input x ∈ X induces a search space, consisting of an initial state b (which we will
   1
     The key difference from (1) contextual bandits is that the action space is exponentially large (in the length of trajectories in the
search space); and from (2) reinforcement learning is that a baseline reference policy exists before learning starts.
                                              Learning to Search Better than Your Teacher



                              x X
                                                                                   e         yeY, l(ye)=0.0


                              s                    r                               e         yeY, l(ye)=0.2


                                                                        e          yeY, l(ye)=0.8



                                  rollin              one-step


                                                    deviations   rollout

Figure 2. An example search space. The exploration begins at the start state s and chooses the middle among three actions by the roll-
in policy twice. Grey nodes are not explored. At state r the learning algorithm considers the chosen action (middle) and both one-step
deviations from that action (top and bottom). Each of these deviations is completed using the roll-out policy until an end state is reached,
at which point the loss is collected. Here, we learn that deviating to the top action (instead of middle) at state r decreases the loss by 0.2.




take to also encode x), a set of end states and a transition function that takes state/action pairs s, a and deterministically
transitions to a new state s0 . For each end state e, there is a corresponding structured output y e and for convenience we
define the loss `(e) = `(y ∗ , y e ) where y ∗ will be clear from context. We futher define a feature generating function Φ that
maps states to feature vectors in Rd . The features express both the input x and previous predictions (actions). Fig. 1 shows
an example search space2 .
An agent follows a policy π ∈ Π, which chooses an action a ∈ A(s) at each non-terminal state s. An action specifies
the next state from s. We consider policies that only access state s through its feature vector Φ(s), meaning that π(s) is
a mapping from Rd to the set of actions A(s). A trajectory is a complete sequence of state/action pairs from the starting
state b to an end state e. Trajectories can be generated by repeatedly executing a policy π in the search space. Without
loss of generality, we assume the lengths of trajectories are fixed and equal to T . The expected loss of a policy J(π) is
the expected loss of the end state of the trajectory e ∼ π, where e ∈ E is an end state reached by following the policy3 .
Throughout, expectations are taken with respect to draws of (x, y) from the training distribution, as well as any internal
randomness in the learning algorithm.
An optimal policy chooses the action leading to the minimal expected loss at each state. For losses decomposable over the
states in a trajectory, generating an optimal policy is trivial given y ∗ (e.g., the sequence tagging example in (Daumé III
et al., 2009)). In general, finding the optimal action at states not in the optimal trajectory can be tricky (e.g., (Goldberg &
Nivre, 2013; Goldberg et al., 2014)).
Finally, like most other L 2 S algorithms, LOLS assumes access to a cost-sensitive classification algorithm. A cost-sensitive
classifier predicts a label ŷ given an example x, and receives a loss cx (ŷ), where cx is a vector containing the cost for each
possible label. In order to perform online updates, we assume access to a no-regret online cost-sensitive learner, which we
formally define below.

Definition 1. Given a hypothesis class H : X → [K], the regret of an online cost-sensitive classification algorithm which
   2
      Doppa et al. (2014) discuss several approaches for defining a search space. The theoretical properties of our approach do not depend
on which search space definition is used.
    3
      Some imitation learning literature (e.g., (Ross et al., 2011; He et al., 2012)) defines the loss of a policy as an accumulation of
the costs of states and actions in the trajectory generated by the policy. For simplicity, we define the loss only based on the end state.
However, our theorems can be generalized.
                                            Learning to Search Better than Your Teacher

Algorithm 1 Locally Optimal Learning to Search (LOLS)
Require: Dataset {xi , y i }N   i=1 drawn from D and β ≥ 0: a mixture parameter for roll-out.
 1: Initialize a policy π0 .
 2: for all i ∈ {1, 2, . . . , N } (loop over each instance) do
 3:    Generate a reference policy π ref based on y i .
 4:    Initialize Γ = ∅.
 5:    for all t ∈ {0, 1, 2, . . . , T − 1} do
 6:       Roll-in by executing πiin = π̂i for t rounds and reach st .
 7:       for all a ∈ A(st ) do
 8:          Let πiout = π ref with probability β, otherwise π̂i .
 9:          Evaluate cost ci,t (a) by rolling-out with πiout for T − t − 1 steps.
10:       end for
11:       Generate a feature vector Φ(xi , st ).
12:       Set Γ = Γ ∪ {hci,t , Φ(xi , st )i}.
13:    end for
14:    π̂i+1 ← Train(π̂i , Γ) (Update).
15: end for
16: Return the average policy across π̂0 , π̂1 , . . . π̂N .



produces hypotheses h1 , . . . , hM on cost-sensitive example sequence {(x1 , c1 ), . . . , (xM , cM )} is

                                                   M
                                                   X                              M
                                                                                  X
                                            CS
                                    RegretM =            cm (hm (xm )) − min            cm (h(xm )).                                 (1)
                                                                            h∈H
                                                   m=1                            m=1


                                   CS
An algorithm is no-regret if RegretM  = o(M ).

Such no-regret guarantees can be obtained, for instance, by applying the SECOC technique (Langford & Beygelzimer,
2005) on top of any importance weighted binary classification algorithm that operates in an online fashion, examples being
the perceptron algorithm or online ridge regression.
LOLS (see Algorithm 1) learns a policy π̂ ∈ Π to approximately minimize J(π),4 assuming access to a reference policy
π ref (which may or may not be optimal). The algorithm proceeds in an online fashion generating a sequence of learned
policies π̂0 , π̂1 , π̂2 , . . .. At round i, a structured sample (xi , y i ) is observed, and the configuration of a search space is
generated along with the reference policy π ref . Based on (xi , y i ), LOLS constructs T cost-sensitive multiclass examples
using a roll-in policy πiin and a roll-out policy πiout . The roll-in policy is used to generate an initial trajectory and the roll-out
policy is used to derive the expected loss. More specifically, for each decision point t ∈ [0, T ), LOLS executes πiin for t
rounds reaching a state st ∼ πiin . Then, a cost-sensitive multiclass example is generated using the features Φ(st ). Classes
in the multiclass example correspond to available actions in state st . The cost c(a) assigned to action a is the difference in
loss between taking action a and the best action.

                                                  c(a) = `(e(a)) − min
                                                                    0
                                                                       `(e(a0 )),                                                    (2)
                                                                        a


where e(a) is the end state reached with rollout by πiout after taking action a in state st . LOLS collects the T examples from
the different roll-out points and feeds the set of examples Γ into an online cost-sensitive multiclass learner, thereby updating
the learned policy from π̂i to π̂i+1 . By default, we use the learned policy π̂i for roll-in and a mixture policy for roll-out.
For each roll-out, the mixture policy either executes π ref to an end-state with probability β or π̂i with probability 1 − β.
LOLS converts into a batch algorithm with a standard online-to-batch conversion where the final model π̄ is generated by
averaging π̂i across all rounds (i.e., picking one of π̂1 , . . . π̂N uniformly at random).
   4
     We can parameterize the policy π̂ using a weight vector w ∈ Rd such that a cost-sensitive classifier can be used to choose an action
based on the features at each state. We do not consider using different weight vectors at different states.
                                             Learning to Search Better than Your Teacher

                                      roll-out →
                                                         Reference            Mixture       Learned
                                      ↓ roll-in
                                      Reference                         Inconsistent
                                      Learned         Not locally opt.         Good            RL

Table 1. Effect of different roll-in and roll-out policies. The strategies marked with “Inconsistent” might generate a learned policy with
a large structured regret, and the strategies marked with “Not locally opt.” could be much worse than its one step deviation. The strategy
marked with “RL” reduces the structure learning problem to a reinforcement learning problem, which is much harder. The strategy
marked with “Good” is favored.

                c e1 , 0                                           c e1 , 0                                              c e1 , 1
             s2 d                                               s2 d
                                                             a       e2 , 10                                        s2    d
          a       e2 , 10                                                                                      a            e2 , 1−
        s1 b                                               s1 a
                                                                   e e3 , 100                                s1 b
                e e3 , 100                                                                                               c e3 , 1+
             s3 f                                               s3 f
                                                                     e4 , 0                                         s3    d
                  e4 , 0                                                                                                    e4 , 0
        (a) πiin = πiout = π ref                         (b) πiin = π ref , repre-
                                                                                                                (c) πiout = π ref
                                                         sentation constrained

Figure 3. Counterexamples of πiin = π ref and πiout = π ref . All three examples have 7 states. The loss of each end state is specified in the
figure. A policy chooses actions to traverse through the search space until it reaches an end state. Legal policies are bit-vectors, so that a
policy with a weight on a goes up in s1 of Figure 3(a) while a weight on b sends it down. Since features uniquely identify actions of the
policy in this case, we just mark the edges with corresponding features for simplicity. The reference policy is bold-faced. In Figure 3(b),
the features are the same on either branch from s1 , so that the learned policy can do no better than pick randomly between the two. In
Figure 3(c), states s2 and s3 share the same feature set (i.e., Φ(s2 ) = Φ(s3 )). Therefore, a policy chooses the same set of actions at
states s2 and s3 . Please see text for details.


3. Theoretical Analysis
In this section, we analyze LOLS and answer the questions raised in Section 1. Throughout this section we use π̄ to denote
the average policy obtained by first choosing n ∈ [1, N ] uniformly at random and then acting according to πn .We begin
with discussing the choices of roll-in and roll-out policies. Table 1 summarizes the results of using different strategies for
roll-in and roll-out.

3.1. The Bad Choices
An obvious bad choice is roll-in and roll-out with the learned policy, because the learner is blind to the reference policy. It
reduces the structured learning problem to a reinforcement learning problem, which is much harder. To build intuition, we
show two other bad cases.
Roll-in with π ref is bad. Roll-in with a reference policy causes the state distribution to be unrealistically good. As a result,
the learned policy never learns to correct for previous mistakes, performing poorly when testing. A related discussion can
be found at Theorem 2.1 in (Ross & Bagnell, 2010). We show a theorem below.
Theorem 1. For πiin = π ref , there is a distribution D over (x, y) such that the induced cost-sensitive regret RegretM
                                                                                                                      CS
                                                                                                                         =
                     ref
o(M ) but J(π̄) − J(π ) = Ω(1).

Proof. We demonstrate examples where the claim is true.
We start with the case where πiout = πiin = π ref . In this case, suppose we have one structured example, whose search
space is defined as in Figure 3(a). From state s1 , there are two possible actions: a and b (we will use actions and features
interchangeably since features uniquely identify actions here); the (optimal) reference policy takes action a. From state s2 ,
there are again two actions (c and d); the reference takes c. Finally, even though the reference policy would never visit s3 ,
from that state it chooses action f . When rolling in with π ref , the cost-sensitive examples are generated only at state s1 (if
we take a one-step deviation on s1 ) and s2 but never at s3 (since that would require a two deviations, one at s1 and one
                                             Learning to Search Better than Your Teacher

at s3 ). As a result, we can never learn how to make predictions at state s3 . Furthermore, under a rollout with π ref , both
actions from state s1 lead to a loss of zero. The learner can therefore learn to take action c at state s2 and b at state s1 , and
achieve zero cost-sensitive regret, thereby “thinking” it is doing a good job. Unfortunately, when this policy is actually run,
it performs as badly as possible (by taking action e half the time in s3 ), which results in the large structured regret.
Next we consider the case where πiout is either the learned policy or a mixture with π ref . When applied to the example in
Figure 3(b), our feature representation is not expressive enough to differentiate between the two actions at state s1 , so the
learned policy can do no better than pick randomly between the top and bottom branches from this state. The algorithm
either rolls in with π ref on s1 and generates a cost-sensitive example at s2 , or generates a cost-sensitive example on s1 and
then completes a roll out with πiout . Crucially, the algorithm still never generates a cost-sensitive example at the state s3
(since it would have already taken a one-step deviation to reach s3 and is constrained to do a roll out from s3 ). As a result,
if the learned policy were to choose the action e in s3 , it leads to a zero cost-sensitive regret but large structured regret.

Despite these negative results, rolling in with the learned policy is robust to both the above failure modes. In Figure 3(a), if
the learned policy picks action b in state s1 , then we can roll in to the state s3 , then generate a cost-sensitive example and
learn that f is a better action than e. Similarly, we also observe a cost-sensitive example in s3 in the example of Figure 3(b),
which clearly demonstrates the benefits of rolling in with the learned policy as opposed to π ref .
Roll-out with π ref is bad if π ref is not optimal. When the reference policy is not optimal or the reference policy is not in
the hypothesis class, roll-out with π ref can make the learner blind to compounding errors. The following theorem holds. We
state this in terms of “local optimality”: a policy is locally optimal if changing any one decision it makes never improves
its performance.
Theorem 2. For πiout = π ref , there is a distribution D over (x, y) such that the induced cost-sensitive regret RegretM
                                                                                                                       CS
                                                                                                                          =
o(M ) but π̄ has arbitrarily large structured regret to one-step deviations.

Proof. Suppose we have only one structured example, whose search space is defined as in Figure 3(c) and the reference
policy chooses a or c depending on the node. If we roll-out with π ref , we observe expected losses 1 and 1 +  for actions
a and b at state s1 , respectively. Therefore, the policy with zero cost-sensitive classification regret chooses actions a and d
depending on the node. However, a one step deviation (a → b) does radically better and can be learned by instead rolling
out with a mixture policy.

The above theorems show the bad cases and motivate a good L 2 S algorithm which generates a learned policy that competes
with the reference policy and deviations from the learned policy. In the following section, we show that Algorithm 1 is such
an algorithm.

3.2. Regret Guarantees
Let Qπ (st , a) represent the expected loss of executing action a at state st and then executing policy π until reaching an end
state. T is the number of decisions required before reaching an end state. For notational simplicity, we use Qπ (st , π 0 ) as a
shorthand for Qπ (st , π 0 (st )), where π 0 (st ) is the action that π 0 takes at state st . Finally, we use dtπ to denote the distribution
over states at time t when acting according to the policy π. The expected loss of a policy is:

                                                      J(π) = Es∼dtπ [Qπ (s, π)] ,                                                       (3)

for any t ∈ [0, T ]. In words, this is the expected cost of rolling in with π up to some time t, taking π’s action at time t and
then completing the roll out with π.
Our main regret guarantee for Algorithm 1 shows that LOLS minimizes a combination of regret to the reference policy π ref
and regret its own one-step deviations. In order to concisely present the result, we present an additional definition which
captures the regret of our approach:
                                N   T
                          1 XX                h out                 ref
                                                                                                      i
                 δN =                Es∼dtπ̂ Qπi (s, π̂i ) − β min Qπ (s, a) + (1 − β) min Qπ̂i (s, a) ,                                (4)
                         N T i=1 t=1        i                   a                       a


where πiout = βπ ref + (1 − β)π̂i is the mixture policy used to roll-out in Algorithm 1. With these definitions in place, we
can now state our main result for Algorithm 1.
                                         Learning to Search Better than Your Teacher

Theorem 3. Let δN be as defined in Equation 4. The averaged policy π̄ generated by running N steps of Algorithm 1 with
a mixing parameter β satisfies

                                                                T
                                                                X
                               β(J(π̄) − J(π ref )) + (1 − β)         J(π̄) − min Es∼dtπ̄ [Qπ̄ (s, π)]
                                                                                                         
                                                                              π∈Π
                                                                t=1
                                                                ≤ T δN .


It might appear that the LHS of the theorem combines one term which is constant to another scaling with T . We point
the reader to Lemma 1 in the appendix to see why the terms are comparable in magnitude. Note that the theorem does not
assume anything about the quality of the reference policy, and it might be arbitrarily suboptimal. Assuming that Algorithm 1
uses a no-regret cost-sensitive classification algorithm (recall Definition 1), the first term in the definition of δN converges
to
                                                          N T
                                                      1 XX                   out
                                          `∗ = min               Es∼dtπ̂ [Qπi (s, π)].
                                                π∈Π N T                 i
                                                         i=1 t=1

This observation is formalized in the next corollary.
Corollary 1. Suppose we use a no-regret cost-sensitive classifier in Algorithm 1. As N → ∞, δN → δclass , where

                                        1 X             h      ref
                                                                                                i
                       δclass = `∗ −           Es∼dtπ̂ β min Qπ (s, a) + (1 − β) min Qπ̂i (s, a) .
                                       N T i,t        i   a                       a




When we have β = 1, so that LOLS becomes almost identical to AGGRE VAT E (Ross & Bagnell, 2014), δclass arises
solely due to the policy class Π being restricted. For other values of β ∈ (0, 1), the asymptotic gap does not always vanish
                                                                                   out
even if the policy class is unrestricted, since `∗ amounts to obtaining mina Qπi (s, a) in each state. This corresponds to
taking a minimum of an average rather than the average of the corresponding minimum values.
In order to avoid this asymptotic gap, it seems desirable to have regrets to reference policy and one-step deviations con-
trolled individually, which is equivalent to having the guarantee of Theorem 3 for all values of β in [0, 1] rather than a
specific one. As we show in the next section, guaranteeing a regret bound to one-step deviations when the reference pol-
icy is arbitrarily bad is rather tricky and can take an exponentially long time. Understanding structures where this can be
done more tractably is an important question for future research. Nevertheless, the result of Theorem 3 has interesting
consequences in several settings, some of which we discuss next.
 1. The second term on the left in the theorem is always non-negative by definition, so the conclusion of Theorem 3 is
    at least as powerful as existing regret guarantee to reference policy when β = 1. Since the previous works in this
    area (Daumé III et al., 2009; Ross et al., 2011; Ross & Bagnell, 2014) have only studied regret guarantees to the
    reference policy, the quantity we’re studying is strictly more difficult.
 2. The asymptotic regret incurred by using a mixture policy for roll-out might be larger than that using the reference
    policy alone, when the reference policy is near-optimal. How the combination of these factors manifests in practice is
    empirically evaluated in Section 5.
 3. When the reference policy is optimal, the first term is non-negative. Consequently, the theorem demonstrates that our
    algorithm competes with one-step deviations in this case. This is true irrespective of whether π ref is in the policy class
    Π or not.
 4. When the reference policy is very suboptimal, then the first term can be negative. In this case, the regret to one-step
    deviations can be large despite the guarantee of Theorem 3, since the first negative term allows the second term to
    be large while the sum stays bounded. However, when the first term is significantly negative, then the learned policy
    has already improved upon the reference policy substantially! This ability to improve upon a poor reference policy by
    using a mixture policy for rolling out is an important distinction for Algorithm 1 compared with previous approaches.
Overall, Theorem 3 shows that the learned policy is either competitive with the reference policy and nearly locally optimal,
or improves substantially upon the reference policy.
                                          Learning to Search Better than Your Teacher

3.3. Hardness of local optimality
In this section we demonstrate that the process of reaching a local optimum (under one-step deviations) can be exponentially
slow when the initial starting policy is arbitrary. This reflects the hardness of learning to search problems when equipped
with a poor reference policy, even if local rather than global optimality is considered a yardstick. We establish this lower
bound for a class of algorithms substantially more powerful than LOLS. We start by defining a search space and a policy
class. Our search space consists of trajectories of length T , with 2 actions available at each step of the trajectory. We use 0
and 1 to index the two actions. We consider policies whose only feature in a state is the depth of the state in the trajectory,
meaning that the action taken by any policy π in a state st depends only on t. Consequently, each policy can be indexed
by a bit string of length T . For instance, the policy 0100 . . . 0 executes action 0 in the first step of any trajectory, action 1
in the second step and 0 at all other levels. It is easily seen that two policies are one-step deviations of each other if the
corresponding bit strings have a Hamming distance of 1.
To establish a lower bound, consider the following powerful algorithmic pattern. Given a current policy π, the algorithm
examines the cost J(π 0 ) for all the one-step deviations π 0 of π. It then chooses the policy with the smallest cost as its new
learned policy. Note that access to the actual costs J(π) makes this algorithm more powerful than existing L 2 S algorithms,
which can only estimate costs of policies through rollouts on individual examples. Suppose this algorithm starts from an
initial policy π̂0 . How long does it take for the algorithm to reach a policy π̂i which is locally optimal compared with all
its one-step deviations? We next present a lower bound for algorithms of this style.
Theorem 4. Consider any algorithm which updates policies only by moving from the current policy to a one-step deviation.
Then there is a search space, a policy class and a cost function where the any such algorithm must make Ω(2T ) updates
before reaching a locally optimal policy. Specifically, the lower bound also applies to Algorithm 1.

The result shows that competing with the seemingly reasonable benchmark of one-step deviations may be very challenging
from an algorithmic perspective, at least without assumptions on the search space, policy class, loss function, or starting
policy. For instance, the construction used to prove Theorem 4 does not apply to Hamming loss.

4. Structured Contextual Bandit
We now show that a variant of LOLS can be run in a “structured contextual bandit” setting, where only the loss of a single
structured label can be observed. As mentioned, this setting has applications to webpage layout, personalized search, and
several other domains.
At each round, the learner is given an input example x, makes a prediction ŷ and suffers structured loss `(y ∗ , ŷ). We
assume that the structured losses lie in the interval [0, 1], that the search space has depth T and that there are at most K
actions available at each state. As before, the algorithm has access to a policy class Π, and also to a reference policy π ref . It
is important to emphasize that the reference policy does not have access to the true label, and the goal is improving on the
reference policy.
Our approach is based on the -greedy algorithm which is a common strategy in partial feedback problems. Upon receiving
an example xi , the algorithm randomly chooses whether to explore or exploit on this example. With probability 1 − , the
algorithm chooses to exploit and follows the recommendation of the current learned policy. With the remaining probability,
the algorithm performs a randomized variant of the LOLS update. A detailed description is given in Algorithm 2.
We assess the algorithm’s performance via a measure of regret, where the comparator is a mixture of the reference policy
and the best one-step deviation. Let π̄i be the averaged policy based on all policies in I at round i. y ie is the predicted label
in either step 9 or step 14 of Algorithm 2. The average regret is defined as:
                              N                                                         T
                           1 X                                                        X                            
                Regret =         E[`(y ∗i , y ie )] − βE[`(y ∗i , y ieref )] − (1 − β)     min Es∼dtπ̄ [Qπ̄i (s, π)]
                           N i=1                                                       t=1
                                                                                           π∈Π        i



Recalling our earlier definition of δi (4), we bound on the regret of Algorithm 2 with a proof in the appendix.
Theorem 5. Algorithm 2 with parameter  satisfies:
                                                                        N
                                                                    1 X
                                                    Regret ≤  +         δn ,
                                                                    N i=1 i
                                         Learning to Search Better than Your Teacher

Algorithm 2 Structured Contextual Bandit Learning
Require: Examples {xi }N                              ref
                              i=1 , reference policy π , exploration probability  and mixture parameter β ≥ 0.
 1: Initialize a policy π0 , and set I = ∅.
 2: for all i = 1, 2, . . . , N (loop over each instance) do
 3:    Obtain the example xi , set explore = 1 with probability , set ni = |I|.
 4:    if explore then
 5:       Pick random time t ∈ {0, 1, . . . , T − 1}.
 6:       Roll-in by executing πiin = π̂ni for t rounds and reach st .
 7:       Pick random action at ∈ A(st ); let K = |A(st )|.
 8:       Let πiout = π ref with probability β, otherwise π̂ni .
 9:       Roll-out with πiout for T − t − 1 steps to evaluate

                                                      ĉ(a) = K`(e(at ))1[a = at ].

10:      Generate a feature vector Φ(xi , st ).
11:      π̂ni +1 ← Train(π̂ni , ĉ, Φ(xi , st )).
12:      Augment I = I ∪ {π̂ni +1 }
13:   else
14:      Follow the trajectory of a policy π drawn randomly from I to an end state e, predict the corresponding structured
         output y ie .
15:   end if
16: end for


With a no-regret learning algorithm, we expect
                                                                     r
                                                                         log |Π|
                                                  δi ≤ δclass + cK               ,                                            (5)
                                                                            i
where |Π| is the cardinality of the policy class. This leads to the following corollary with a proof in the appendix.
Corollary 2. In the setup of Theorem 5, suppose further that the underlying no-regret learner satisfies (5). Then with
probability at least 1 − 2/(N 5 K 2 T 2 log(N |Π|))3 ,
                                                         r                      !
                                                         3 log(N |Π|)
                                     Regret = O (KT )2/3              + T δclass .
                                                               N


5. Experiments
This section shows that LOLS is able to improve upon a suboptimal reference policy and provides empirical evidence to
support the analysis in Section 3. We conducted experiments on the following three applications.
Cost-Sensitive Multiclass classification. For each cost-sensitive multiclass sample, each choice of label has an associated
cost. The search space for this task is a binary search tree. The root of the tree corresponds to the whole set of labels. We
recursively split the set of labels in half, until each subset contains only one label. A trajectory through the search space is a
path from root-to-leaf in this tree. The loss of the end state is defined by the cost. An optimal reference policy can lead the
agent to the end state with the minimal cost. We also show results of using a bad reference policy which arbitrarily chooses
an action at each state. The experiments are conducted on KDDCup 99 dataset5 generated from a computer network
intrusion detection task. The dataset contains 5 classes, 4, 898, 431 training and 311, 029 test instances.
Part of speech tagging. The search space for POS tagging is left-to-right prediction. Under Hamming loss the trivial
optimal reference policy simply chooses the correct part of speech for each word. We train on 38k sentences and test on
11k from the Penn Treebank (Marcus et al., 1993). One can construct suboptimal or even bad reference policies, but under
Hamming loss these are all equivalent to the optimal policy because roll-outs by any fixed policy will incur exactly the
same loss and the learner can immediately learn from one-step deviations.
      5
          http://kdd.ics.uci.edu/databases/kddcup99/kddcup99.html
                                           Learning to Search Better than Your Teacher

                                     roll-out →
                                                     Reference        Mixture         Learned
                                     ↓ roll-in
                                                       Reference is optimal
                                     Reference         0.282         0.282              0.279
                                     Learned           0.267          0.266             0.266
                                                        Reference is bad
                                     Reference         1.670         1.664              0.316
                                     Learned           0.266          0.266             0.266

Table 2. The average cost on cost-sensitive classification dataset; columns are roll-out and rows are roll-in. The best result is bold.
S EARN achieves 0.281 and 0.282 when the reference policy is optimal and bad, respectively. LOLS is Learned/Mixture and high-
lighted in green.



                                     roll-out →
                                                     Reference        Mixture         Learned
                                     ↓ roll-in
                                                       Reference is optimal
                                     Reference         95.58         94.12              94.10
                                     Learned           95.61          94.13             94.10

Table 3. The accuracy on POS tagging; columns are roll-out and rows are roll-in. The best result is bold. S EARN achieves 94.88. LOLS
is Learned/Mixture and highlighted in green.




Dependency parsing. A dependency parser learns to generate a tree structure describing the syntactic dependencies be-
tween words in a sentence (McDonald et al., 2005; Nivre, 2003). We implemented a hybrid transition system (Kuhlmann
et al., 2011) which parses a sentence from left to right with three actions: S HIFT, R EDUCE L EFT and R EDUCE R IGHT. We
used the “non-deterministic oracle” (Goldberg & Nivre, 2013) as the optimal reference policy, which leads the agent to
the best end state reachable from each state. We also designed two suboptimal reference policies. A bad reference policy
chooses an arbitrary legal action at each state. A suboptimal policy applies a greedy selection and chooses the action which
leads to a good tree when it is obvious; otherwise, it arbitrarily chooses a legal action. (This suboptimal reference was the
default reference policy used prior to the work on “non-deterministic oracles.”) We used data from the Penn Treebank Wall
Street Journal corpus: the standard data split for training (sections 02-21) and test (section 23). The loss is evaluated in
UAS (unlabeled attachment score), which measures the fraction of words that pick the correct parent.
For each task and each reference policy, we compare 6 different combinations of roll-in (learned or reference) and roll-out
(learned, mixture or reference) strategies. We also include S EARN in the comparison, since it has notable differences from
LOLS. S EARN rolls in and out with a mixture where a different policy is drawn for each state, while LOLS draws a
policy once per example. S EARN uses a batch learner, while LOLS uses online. The policy in S EARN is a mixture over the
policies produced at each iteration. For LOLS, it suffices to keep just the most recent one. It is an open research question
whether an analogous theoretical guarantee of Theorem 3 can be established for S EARN.
Our implementation is based on Vowpal Wabbit6 , a machine learning system that supports online learning and L 2 S. For
LOLS’s mixture policy, we set β = 0.5. We found that LOLS is not sensitive to β, and setting β to be 0.5 works well in
practice. For S EARN, we set the mixture parameter to be 1 − (1 − α)t , where t is the number of rounds and α = 10−5 .
Unless stated otherwise all the learners take 5 passes over the data.
Tables 2, 3 and 4 show the results on cost-sensitive multiclass classification, POS tagging and dependency parsing, re-
spectively. The empirical results qualitatively agree with the theory. Rolling in with reference is always bad. When the
reference policy is optimal, then doing roll-outs with reference is a good idea. However, when the reference policy is
suboptimal or bad, then rolling out with reference is a bad idea, and mixture rollouts perform substantially better. LOLS
also significantly outperforms S EARN on all tasks.
   6
       http://hunch.net/˜vw/
                                           Learning to Search Better than Your Teacher

                                     roll-out →
                                                          Reference     Mixture         Learned
                                     ↓ roll-in
                                                           Reference is optimal
                                     Reference              87.2          89.7           88.2
                                     Learned                90.7           90.5          86.9
                                                          Reference is suboptimal
                                     Reference              83.3          87.2           81.6
                                     Learned                87.1          90.2           86.8
                                                             Reference is bad
                                     Reference              68.7          65.4           66.7
                                     Learned                75.8          89.4           87.5

Table 4. The UAS score on dependency parsing data set; columns are roll-out and rows are roll-in. The best result is bold. S EARN
achieves 84.0, 81.1, and 63.4 when the reference policy is optimal, suboptimal, and bad, respectively. LOLS is Learned/Mixture
and highlighted in green.


6. Proofs of Main Results
Lemma 1 (Ross & Bagnell Lemma 4.3). For any two policies, π1 , π2 :
J(π1 ) − J(π2 ) = T Et∼U (1,T ),s∼dtπ [Qπ2 (s, π1 ) − Qπ2 (s, π2 )] = T Et∼U (1,T ),s∼dtπ [Qπ1 (s, π1 ) − Qπ1 (s, π2 )]
                                       1                                                     2



Proof. Let π t be a policy that executes π1 in the first t steps and then executes π2 from time steps t + 1 to T . We have
J(π1 ) = J(π T ) and J(π2 ) = J(π 0 ). Consequently, we can set up the telescoping sum:
                                       T
                                       X                               T
                                                                       Xh                                       i
                                                 J(π t ) − J(π t−1 ) =    Es∼dtπ [Qπ2 (st, π1 ) − Qπ2 (st, π2 )]
                                                                   
                  J(π1 ) − J(π2 ) =
                                                                                    1
                                       t=1                             t=1
                                    = T Et∼U (1,T ),s∼π1 [Qπ2 (s, π1 ) − Qπ2 (s, π2 )]

The second equality in the lemma can be obtained by reversing the roles of π1 and π2 above.

6.1. Proof of Theorem 3
We start with an application of Lemma 1. Using the lemma, we have:
                                             1 X
                        J(π̄) − J(π ref ) =       J(π̂i ) − J(π ref )
                                                                     
                                             N i
                                             1 Xh                      h ref           ref
                                                                                                    ii
                                           =      T Et∼U (1,T ),s∼π̂i Qπ (s, π̂i ) − Qπ (s, π ref )                          (6)
                                             N i

We also observe that
                               T 
                               X                                     
                                                                  π̄
                                       J(π̄) − min Es∼dtπ̄ [Q (s, π)]
                                                    π∈Π
                               t=1
                                       N X
                                         T                                    
                                  1    X
                                                                        π̂i
                                =           J(π̂i ) − min Es∼dtπ̂ [Q (s, π)]
                                  N i=1 t=1           π∈Π            i


                                     N T                                                       
                                  1 XX
                                =           Es∼dtπ̂ [Qπ̂i (s, π̂i )] − min Es∼dtπ̂ [Qπ̂i (s, π)]
                                  N i=1 t=1         i                  π∈Π        i


                                       N T
                                    1 XXh                                               i
                                ≤             Es∼dtπ̂ [Qπ̂i (s, π̂i ) − min Qπ̂i (s, a)] .                                   (7)
                                    N i=1 t=1        i                   a
                                           Learning to Search Better than Your Teacher

Combining the above bounds from Equations 6 and 7, we see that
                                          T
                                          X                               
                               ref                                 π̄
                               
                β J(π̄) − J(π ) + (1 − β)    J(π̄) − min Es∼dtπ̄ [Q (s, π)]
                                                                          π∈Π
                                                    t=1
                   N T
                1 XX               h  ref           ref
                                                                                                          i
            ≤             Es∼dtπ̂ β Qπ (s, π̂i ) − Qπ (s, π ref ) + (1 − β) Qπ̂i (s, π̂i ) − min Qπ̂i (s, a)
                N i=1 t=1        i                                                            a

                   N T
                1 XX               h out             ref
                                                                                           i
            =             Es∼dtπ̂ Qπi (s, π̂i ) − βQπ (s, π ref ) − (1 − β) min Qπ̂i (s, a)
                N i=1 t=1        i                                           a

                   N T
                1 XX               h out                  ref
                                                                                           i
            ≤             Es∼dtπ̂ Qπi (s, π̂i ) − β min Qπ (s, a) − (1 − β) min Qπ̂i (s, a)
                N i=1 t=1        i                   a                       a



6.2. Proof of Corollary 1
The proof is fairly straightforward from definitions. By definition of no-regret, it is immediate that the gap
                                         N X
                                         X T
                                                    E [ci,t (π̂i (st )) − ci,t (π(st ))] = o(N T ),                       (8)
                                         i=1 t=1

for all policies π ∈ Π, where we recall that ci,t is the cost-vector over the actions on round i when we do roll-outs from the
tth decision point. Let Ei denote the conditional expectation on round i, conditioned on the previous rounds in Algorithm 1.
Then it is easily seen that
                                                                                        
                                                                                      0
                                       Ei [ci,t (a)] = Ei `(ei,t (a)) − min
                                                                          0
                                                                             `(ei,t (a )) ,
                                                                                    a

with ei,t being the end-state reached on completing the roll-out with the policy πiout on round i, when action a was taken
on the decision point t. Recalling that we rolled in following the trajectory of πiin , this expectation further simplifies to
                                                         h out     i                            
                                                                                            0
                                 Ei [ci,t (a)] = Es∼dtπ̂ Qπi (s, a) − Ei min  0
                                                                                 `(e  i,t (a  ))   .
                                                                   i                     a

Now taking expectations in Equation 8 and combining with the above observation, we obtain that for any policy π ∈ Π,
                              N X
                              X T
                                         E [ci,t (π̂i (st )) − ci,t (π(st ))]
                               i=1 t=1
                                     N X
                                       T                     h                                   i
                                     X                             out                out
                               =               Es∼dtπ̂           Qπi (s, π̂i (s)) − Qπi (s, π(s)) = o(N T ).
                                                         i
                                     i=1 t=1

Taking the best policy π ∈ Π and dividing through by N T completes the proof.

6.3. Proof sketch of Theorem 5
(Sketch only) We decompose the analysis over exploration and exploitation rounds. For the exploration rounds, we bound
the regret by its maximum possible value of 1. To control the regret on the exploitation rounds, we focus on the updates
performed during exploration.
The cost vector ĉ(a) used at an exploration round i satisfies

                                          Ei [ĉ(a)] = Ei [K`(e(at ))1[a = at ]]
                                                                            h out      i
                                                     = Et∼U (0:T −1),s∼dtπ̂  Qπi (s, a) ,
                                                                                  ni
                                          Learning to Search Better than Your Teacher

Corollary 1. Since the cost vector is identical in expectation as that used in Algorithm 1, the proof of theorem 3, which only
depends on expectations, can be reused to prove a result similar to theorem 3 for the exploration rounds. That is, letting π̄i
to be the averaged policy over all the policies in I at exploration round i, we have the bound
                                                                  T
                                                                  X
                               β(J(π̄i ) − J(π ref )) + (1 − β)         J(π̄) − min Es∼dtπ̄ [Qπ̄ (s, π)]
                                                                                                           
                                                                                 π∈Π
                                                                  t=1
                                                                  ≤ T δi ,

where δi is as defined in Equation 4.
On the exploitation rounds, we can now invoke this guarantee. Recalling that we have ni exploration rounds until round i,
the expected regret at an exploitation round i is at most δni . Thus the overall regret of the algorithm is at most
                                                                             N
                                                                        1 X
                                                   Regret ≤  +              δn ,
                                                                        N i=1 i

which completes the proof.

6.4. Proof of corollary 2
We start by substituting Equation 5 in the regret bound of Theorem 5. This yields
                                                                         s
                                                                      N
                                                     T          cKT X log |Π|
                                      Regret ≤  + δclass +                       .
                                                     N           N i=1        ni

We would like to further replace ni with its expectation which is i. However, this does not yield a valid upper bound
directly. Instead, we apply a Chernoff bound to the quantity ni , which is a sum of i i.i.d. Bernoulli random variables with
mean . Consequently, we have
                                                              2 
                                                                  γ i
                                  P (ni ≤ (1 − γ)i) ≤ exp −              ≤ exp(−i/8),
                                                                   2

for γ = 1/2. Let i0 = 16 log N/ + 1. Then we can sum the failure probabilities above for all i ≥ i0 and obtain
                                 N
                                 X                        N
                                                          X                         ∞
                                                                                    X
                                        P (ni ≤ i/2) ≤          exp(−i/8) ≤             exp(−i/8)
                                 i=i0                     i=i0                     i=i0
                                                         exp(−i0 /8)
                                                      ≤
                                                        1 − exp(−/8)
                                                        exp(−2 log N )   8
                                                      =                ≤ 2 ,
                                                         exp(/8) − 1   N 

where the last inequality uses 1 + x ≤ exp(x). Consequently, we can now allow a regret of 1 on the first i0 rounds, and
control the regret on the remaining rounds using ni ≤ i/2. Doing so, we see that with probability at least 1 − 2/(N 2 )
                                                                      N
                                                                         r
                                               i0    T          cKT X 2 log |Π|
                                 Regret ≤  +     + δclass +
                                               N     N           N i=1          i
                                                  16 log N +   T         8cKT log |Π|
                                           ≤+                 + δclass +
                                                       N       N            N
Choosing  = (KT )2/3 (log(N |Π|)/N )1/3 completes the proof.

6.5. Proof of Theorem 4
The proof follows from results in combinatorics. The dynamics of algorithms considered here can be thought of as a path
through a graph where the vertices are the corners of the boolean hypercube in T dimensions with two vertices at Hamming
                                                               Learning to Search Better than Your Teacher

                                                                    000                        000                 000

                         0             1
                                                         001        010     100        001     010     100   001   010     100

             0           1             0         1
                                                         011        101     110        011     101     110   011   101     110
         0       1   0       1     0       1 0       1

                                                                    111                        111                 111

                             (a)                                      (b)                        (c)                 (d)

Figure 4. Pictorial illustration of the proof elements of Theorem 4. Panel (a) depicts the actions chosen by policy 000. Selected action in
each state is indicated in bold. Panels (b) through (d) depict various stages as the algorithm updates the policy to its one-step deviations,
starting from the policy 000. Each policy that the algorithm selects is depicted by a shaded circle, with the arrows marking the moves
of the algorithm. Current policy is the shaded circle with a bold boundary. Dashed lines denote the potential one-step deviations that the
algorithm can move to and crossed policies are those which have higher costs than the current policy (see text for details).


distance 1 sharing an edge. We demonstrate that there is a cost function such that the algorithm is forced to traverse a long
path before reaching a local optimum. Without loss of generality, assume that the algorithm always moves to a one-step
deviation with the lowest cost since otherwise longer paths exist.
To gain some intuition, first consider T = 3 which is depicted in Figure 4. Suppose the algorithm starts from the policy
000 then moves to the policy 001. If the algorithm picks the best amongst the one-step deviations, we know that J(001) ≤
min{J(000), J(010), J(100)}, placing constraints on the costs of these policies which force the algorithm to not visit any
of these policies later. Similarly, if the algorithm moves to the policy 011 next, we obtain a further constraint J(011) <
min{J(101), J(001)}. It is easy to check that the only feasible move (corresponding to policies not crossed in Figure 4(c))
which decreases the cost under these constraints is to the policy 111 and then 110, at which point the algorithm attains
local optimality since no more moves that decrease the cost are possible. In general, at any step i of the path, the policy
π̂i is a one-step deviation of π̂i−1 and at least 2 or more steps away from π̂j for j < i − 1. The policy never moves to a
neighbor of an ancestor (excluding the immediate parent) in the path.
This property is the key element to understand more generally. Suppose we have a current path π̂1 → π̂2 . . . → π̂i−1 → π̂i .
Since we picked the best neighbor of π̂j as π̂j+1 , π̂i+1 cannot be a neighbor of any π̂j for j < i. Consequently, the
maximum number of updates the algorithm must make is given by the length of the longest such path on a hypercube,
where each vertex (other than start and end) neighbors exactly two other vertices on the path. This is called the snake-in-
the-box problem in combinatorics, and arises in the study of error correcting codes. It is shown by Abbott & Katchalski
(1988) that the length of longest such path is Θ(2T ). With monotonically decreasing costs for policies in the path and
maximal cost for all policies not in the path, the traversal time is Θ(2T ).
Finally, it might appear that Algorithm 1 is capable of moving to policies which are not just one-step deviations of the
currently learned policy, since it performs updates on “mini-batches” of T cost-sensitive examples. However, on this lower
bound instance, Algorithm 1 will be forced to follow one-step deviations only due to the structure of the cost function. For
instance, from the policy 000 when we assign maximal cost to policies 010 and 100 in our example, this corresponds to
making the cost of taking action 1 on first and second step very large in the induced cost-sensitive problem. Consequently,
001 is the policy which minimizes the cost-sensitive loss even when all the T roll-outs are accumulated, implying the
algorithm is forced to traverse the same long path to local optimality.

Acknowledgements
Part of this work was carried out while Kai-Wei, Akshay and Hal were visiting Microsoft Research.

References
Abbott, H.L and Katchalski, M. On the snake in the box problem. Journal of Combinatorial Theory, Series B, 45(1):13 –
  24, 1988.

Cesa-Bianchi, N. and Lugosi, G. Prediction, Learning, and Games. Cambridge University Press, 2006.

Collins, Michael and Roark, Brian. Incremental parsing with the perceptron algorithm. In Proceedings of the Conference
                                       Learning to Search Better than Your Teacher

  of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL), 2004.

Daumé III, Hal and Marcu, Daniel. Learning as search optimization: Approximate large margin methods for structured
  prediction. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML), 2005.
Daumé III, Hal, Langford, John, and Marcu, Daniel. Search-based structured prediction. Machine Learning Journal, 2009.
Daumé III, Hal, Langford, John, and Ross, Stéphane. Efficient programmable learning to search. arXiv:1406.1837, 2014.

Doppa, Janardhan Rao, Fern, Alan, and Tadepalli, Prasad. HC-Search: A learning framework for search-based structured
  prediction. Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research (JAIR), 50, 2014.
Goldberg, Yoav and Nivre, Joakim. Training deterministic parsers with non-deterministic oracles. Transactions of the
  ACL, 1, 2013.

Goldberg, Yoav, Sartorio, Francesco, and Satta, Giorgio. A tabular method for dynamic oracles in transition-based parsing.
  Transactions of the ACL, 2, 2014.
He, He, Daumé III, Hal, and Eisner, Jason. Imitation learning by coaching. In Neural Information Processing Systems
  (NIPS), 2012.
Kuhlmann, Marco, Gómez-Rodrı́guez, Carlos, and Satta, Giorgio. Dynamic programming algorithms for transition-based
  dependency parsers. In Proceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
  Human Language Technologies-Volume 1, pp. 673–682. Association for Computational Linguistics, 2011.
Langford, John and Beygelzimer, Alina. Sensitive error correcting output codes. In Learning Theory, pp. 158–172.
  Springer, 2005.

Marcus, Mitch, Marcinkiewicz, Mary Ann, and Santorini, Beatrice. Building a large annotated corpus of English: The
 Penn Treebank. Computational Linguistics, 19(2):313–330, 1993.
McDonald, Ryan, Pereira, Fernando, Ribarov, Kiril, and Hajic, Jan. Non-projective dependency parsing using spanning
 tree algorithms. In Proceedings of the Joint Conference on Human Language Technology Conference and Empirical
 Methods in Natural Language Processing (HLT/EMNLP), 2005.

Nivre, Joakim. An efficient algorithm for projective dependency parsing. In International Workshop on Parsing Technolo-
  gies (IWPT), pp. 149–160, 2003.
Ross, Stéphane and Bagnell, J. Andrew. Efficient reductions for imitation learning. In Proceedings of the Workshop on
  Artificial Intelligence and Statistics (AI-Stats), 2010.

Ross, Stéphane and Bagnell, J. Andrew.      Reinforcement and imitation learning via interactive no-regret learning.
  arXiv:1406.5979, 2014.
Ross, Stéphane, Gordon, Geoff J., and Bagnell, J. Andrew. A reduction of imitation learning and structured prediction to
  no-regret online learning. In Proceedings of the Workshop on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics (AI-Stats), 2011.
Zinkevich, Martin. Online convex programming and generalized infinitesimal gradient ascent. In Proceedings of the
  International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML), 2003.
                                         Learning to Search Better than Your Teacher

Algorithm 3 Cost-sensitive One Against All (CSOAA) Algorithm
Require: Initial predictor f1 (x)
 1: for all t = 1, 2, . . . T do
 2:   Observe {xt,i }K   i=1 .
 3:   Predict class it = arg minK    i=1 ft (xt,i ).
 4:   Observe costs {ct,i }K   i=1 .
 5:   Update ft using online least-squares regression on data {xt,i , ct,i }K
                                                                            i=1 .
 6: end for


A. Details of cost-sensitive reduction
In this section we present the details of the reduction to cost-sensitive multiclass classification used in our experimental
evaluation. The experiments used the Cost-Sensitive One Against All (CSOAA) classification technique, the pseudocode
for which is presented in Algorithm 3. In words, the algorithm takes as input a feature vector xt,i for class i at round t.
It then trains a regressor to predict the corresponding costs ct,i given the features. Given a fresh example, the predicted
label is the one with the smallest predicted cost. This is a natural extension of the One Against All (OAA) approach for
multiclass classification to cost-sensitive settings. Note that this also covers the alternative approach of having a common
feature vector, xt,i ≡ zt for all i and instead training K different cost predictors, one for each class. If zt ∈ Rd , one can
simply create xt,i ∈ RdK , with xt,i = zt in the ith block and zero elsewhere. Learning a common predictor f on x is now
representationally equivalent to learning K separate predictors, one for each class.
There is one missing detail in the specification of Algorithm 3, which is the update step. The specifics of this step depend
on the form of the function f (x) being used. For instance, if f (x) = wT x, then a simple update rule is to use online
ridge regression (seePe.g. Section 11.7 in (Cesa-Bianchi & Lugosi, 2006)). Online gradient descent (Zinkevich, 2003)
                       K
on the squared loss i=1 (f (xt,i ) − ct,i )2 is another simple alternative, which can be used more generally. The specific
implementation in our experiments uses a more sophisticated variant of online gradient descent with linear functions.

B. Details of Experiments
Our implementation is based on Vowpal Wabbit (VW) version 7.8 (http://hunch.net/˜vw/). It is available
at https://github.com/KaiWeiChang/vowpal_wabbit/tree/icmlexp. For LOLS, we use flags “–
search rollin”, “–search rollout”, “–search beta” to set the rollin policy, the rollout policy, and β, respectively. We use
“–search interpolation policy –search passes per policy –passes 5” to enable S EARN. The details settings of various VW
flags for the three experiments are shown below:

  • POS tagging: we use “–search task sequence –search 45 –holdout off –affix -2w,+2w –search neighbor features -
    1:w,1:w -b 28”
  • Dependency parsing: we use “ –search task dep parser –search 12 –holdout off –search history length 3 –
    search no caching -b 24 –root label 8 –num label 12”
  • Cost-sensitive multiclass: we use “–search task multiclasstask –search 5 –holdout off –mc cost”

The data sets used in the experiments are available upon request.
